Question Bank 2025

1. IRM&DF 
	Explain the incident handling process with a suitable diagram
	A computer having IP address 192.168.0.10 is connected to the LAN. HOw to confirm that the computer is not infected by a botnet?
	Write in brief how Splunk can help in real-time log analysis 
	What is timeline analysis? How vertical timelineis different from the Gantt chart timeline 
	An IOT device is placed in the paddy field for regular field assessment.It is sending data to the cloud server along with the other sensors.What are the preventive measures required to safeguard these sensors from malware?
	How CIA plays an important role in the indian defense system?
	What is the need for data management in a data warehouse? What are the data recovery technologies used by these organizations?
	Define virtualization. HOw to create a virtualization environment for resource management 
	Write short notes on NIST and OWASP
	Write a brief note on post incident activity 
	What is slcak space?
	Explain the cybercrime investigation SOP 
	Explain acquistion techniques and types of acquisition for mobile devices and computers
	Write a note on incident response team roles
	Write a case-study explaining the importance of digital forensic investigation 
	What was the name of the first anti-virus software?
	A xyz is a program embedded inside of a GIF image
	How I/O Panel connectors and SATA connectors can be used to minimize computer incidents 
	Explain how distributed database and centralized database can be secured to avoide incidents 
	Data integrity is more important than data availability in GhatGPT, justify.
	What is the difference between imaging and cloning?
	What is write blockers and importance of write blockers
	Explain estimating the cost of an incident 
	What makes you an ideal candidate for a position of incident manager in a network related organization?
	A technology-based company suggested data replication and virtualization as a disaster recovery solution, justify your answer.
	Explain IRM reports with necessary information with any recent case study with root cause.
	What are important artifacts related to user activities? How SIEM tools analyze these artifacts 




2. Mobile Security 
	What are important features of Santoku and why is it important for mobile forensics?
	Discuss about hexdump
	What is dalvik? HOw is it different from smali?
	What are different phases of pen-testing?
	Explain OWASP top 10 vulnerabilities for mobiles
	What is security audit, its challenges and phases?
	What is reverse engineering, apktool and its features?
	Discuss vulnerability assessment and its types
	Write a short note on android content provider.
	Explain MobSF In detail
	Explain the android application security vulnerability assessment using QARK.
	Explain security auditing with drozer.
	Explain mobile application security pen-testing strategy 
	Explain FRida and objection framework for android dynamic instrumentation.
	Explain jadx jdgui and dexdump in reverse engineering process.
	Explain android partitions and filesystems 
	Explain android passive and active traffic analysis 
	What is security? What could be the possible threats for mobiles?
	What is DVM? Explain execution of DVM with comparison of JVM 
	Explain step-by-step active analysis of android traffic using burpsuite 
	




3. Network Security 
	Explain the ARP protocol with respect to this scenario along with ARP spoofing and all its attack vectors and attack surface.
	Illustrate ElGamal ECC Encryption algorithm with an example
	Encrypt the following message using playfair cipher 
	Calculate the power modulo 191^930 mod 103
	Find the value of phi(65) and phi(99)
	What is the zero point of an elliptic curve 
	Explain the difference between error control and flow control
	Define - primitive root, masquerading, diffusion, relatively prime, avalanche effect
	RSA and Diffie Hellman numericals 
	Explain protocols and its types
	Explain any seven wireshark filters with synatx 
	Explain flow analysis techniques 
	Explain TCP and UDP header 
	Explain TCP Segment header 
	Explain GRE protocol and its uses 
	Explain CAM overflow in detail
	Explain SMTP in detail 
	Explain authentication server.
	Explain CIA triage.
	NIDS vs NIPS
	





4. Malware Analysis 
	What is hashing and how is it useful in DF 
	What is the difference between a function call and jump in 
	What is assembly language and how is it different from high level programming language?
	List data transfer instruction types and explain anone with suitable example
	Convert C program to assembly language 
	As given below output write assembly language program on it 
	What are some of the techniques used in dyanmic analysis and when is each technique most effective?
	How to detect packers? EXplain three methods.
	How to analyze dynamically linked and runtime-linked lobraries 
	Explain the unpacker and unpacking methods in detail.
	Set up and ideal lab for dynamic analysis of malware 
	Illustrate the importance of malware analysis in the industrial aspects 
	Discuss disassembly and their types/algorithms 
	Explain 4 types of malware - characteristics, behaviour, case study 
	Explain - virtualallocex, writeprocessmemory, createremotethread
	Explain keylogger behaviour
	Explain the difference between kernel mode and user mode debugging 
	Write a detailed note on breakpoint and its types
	Explain reverse engineering and IDA pro
	What is hook injection?
	Explain four major sections of main memory 
	Understanding of code snippets
	Discuss anti-reverse engineering techniques with types and examples 
	Explain process injectiron.
	What is cyber warfare explain with case study related to malware
	What is anti virtual machine in malware analysis 
	Explain malware sandboxing? How can various parameters be identified from sandbox 
	What is debugging with stages 
	How deep packet inspection of network packets can be used in malware forensics?
	What is volatile data in digital forensics?
	Explain APT and its lifecycle in detail 
	









































